zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little, 
 
 
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at 
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump, 
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his 
.. <p 136 > 
.. <p 138 > 
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring 
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion 
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the 
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather 
Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo). 
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest 
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear 
always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased; 
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through. 
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it 
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very 
but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other 
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or 
considerable 
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those 
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated 
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold 
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very 
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens 
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an 
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as 
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long 
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does 
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not 
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then, 
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend 
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call 
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the 
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale 
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir 
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a 
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it 
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the 
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating 
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same 
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there 
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them 
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed. 
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular 
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also 
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in 
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen 
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward, 
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against 
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some 
surface of the Polar Sea, 
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the 
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all 
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all 
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of 
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil. 
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen; 
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque, 
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the 
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is 
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some 
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the 
 
     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face 
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the 
.. <p 144 > 
.. <p 145 > 
.. <p 147 > 
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously, 
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its 
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of 
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third 
all that, 
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's 
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and 
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee 
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, 
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and 
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it. 
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low, 
czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you 
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck, 
dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not 
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel 
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it 
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for 
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, 
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their 
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart 
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over 
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he 
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little 
in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp 
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire 
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated 
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends 
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's 
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage 
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that 
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian 
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when 
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of 
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and 
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least 
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now 
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships 
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his 
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging 
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from 
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old 
steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle, 
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to 
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available 
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and 
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this 
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation, 
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music. 
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to 
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. 
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in 
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the 
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with 
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of 
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal 
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden 
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the 
 
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in 
.. <p 152 > 
.. <p 154 > 
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in 
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the 
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty 
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is 
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally 
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's 
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but 
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering 
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a 
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar 
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their 
but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post. 
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest 
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so 
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be 
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, 
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between 
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But 
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic 
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in 
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for 
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who 
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers 
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical 
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt 
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, 
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of 
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires 
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so 
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand 
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years 
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you 
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called 
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you 
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you 
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim 
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to 
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the 
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted 
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other 
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly 
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels 
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with 
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of 
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians; 
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed 
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is 
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A 
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire 
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a 
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the 
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his 
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest, 
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack, 
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I 
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; 
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of 
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the 
you cannot successfully shoot at them from 
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships 
 
 
 
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted 
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye 
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the 
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize 
.. <p 161 > 
.. <p 163 > 
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and 
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who, 
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living, 
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he 
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered 
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the 
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor 
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling 
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby 
as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly 
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But 
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, 
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth, 
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes 
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby 
for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed 
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of 
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without 
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken 
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate 
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our 
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my 
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off 
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific 
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are 
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look 
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh 
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not 
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a 
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living 
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not 
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man, 
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within. 
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the 
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike 
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible 
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost 
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, 
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our 
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked 
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a 
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with 
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck, 
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the 
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan, 
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I 
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye 
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the 
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, 
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I 
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow. 
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he 
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look 
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing 
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     ( Stubb solus, and 
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.) 
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A 
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an 
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and 
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore 
     tambourine up the scuttle.) 
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's 
--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters. 
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy 
.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP > 
.. <p 169 > 
.. <p 171 > 
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell 
Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys! 
Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born, 
Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig 
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn 
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm 
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift 
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our 
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor 
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian 
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming. 
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; 
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your 
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the 
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts 
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the 
grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more 
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me! 
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la! 
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva! 
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild, 
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your 
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all 
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with 
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye, 
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder 
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to 
never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice 
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the 
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift, 
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it, 
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they 
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and 
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white 
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan 
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence 
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim, 
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why 
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too; 
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark 
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't 
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right, 
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one 
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those 
 
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there 
     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed, 
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a 
.. <p 179 > 
.. <p 181 > 
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach 
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the 
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm 
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively 
Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which 
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his 
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go 
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference 
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and 
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to 
been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the 
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves 
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the 
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic 
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of 
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient 
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale, 
ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so 
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches 
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens 
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as 
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in 
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity, 
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a 
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped 
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still 
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced. 
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon 
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the 
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of 
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was 
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in 
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed; 
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, 
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity, 
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although 
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet 
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned 
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an 
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his 
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several 
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous, 
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt 
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove 
tales of 
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as 
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was, 
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That 
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of 
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was 
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as 
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been 
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a 
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage); 
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, 
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the 
white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating 
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee 
 
 
 
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the 
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a 
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even 
.. <p 187 > 
.. <p 189 > 
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet 
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White 
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a 
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what 
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this 
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, 
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white 
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these 
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious 
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth, 
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides 
cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is 
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the 
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which, 
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name 
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated 
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods, 
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this 
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, 
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly 
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne, 
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god, 
great, unflattering laureate, Nature. 
has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian 
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of 
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky 
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But 
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our 
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of 
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The 
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least 
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that 
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the 
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the 
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, 
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead, 
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of 
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of 
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in 
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time 
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it 
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their 
terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas 
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other 
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the 
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there; 
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the 
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some 
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous 
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless 
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us 
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on 
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he 
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those 
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The 
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in 
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't 
     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally 
     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon 
     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. 
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco? 
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK > 
.. <p 188n. > 
.. <p 195 > 
.. <p 196 > 
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the 
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet 
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a 
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not 
adoring cherubim! 
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had 
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales 
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or 
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly 
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I 
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others 
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I 
call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a 
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond 
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the 
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds 
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham 
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting 
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic 
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp 
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that 
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines 
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of 
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows. 
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange 
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also 
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a 
of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me 
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to 
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket! 
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a 
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape. 
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating 
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in 
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning 
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have 
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to 
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein 
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam 
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly 
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly 
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides 
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some 
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy 
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the 
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast 
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully 
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at 
 
 
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are 
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old 
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of 
.. <p 202 > 
.. <p 204 > 
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I 
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts, 
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an 
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet 
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those 
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall 
and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar. 
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast? 
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items, 
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be 
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more 
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of 
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when 
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the 
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect 
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they 
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be 
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or 
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the 
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale 
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a 
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a 
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that 
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this 
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the 
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas 
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this 
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that 
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's 
memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been 
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and 
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I 
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very 
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous 
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on 
oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack! 
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form 
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in 
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, 
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters 
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with 
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale 
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a 
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a 
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off 
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by 
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the 
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will 
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky? 
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard 
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily 
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are 
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound 
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has 
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I, 
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken 
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts, 
 
 
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his 
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning, 
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES > 
.. <p 205n. > 
.. <p 209 > 
.. <p 211 > 
Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now, 
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a 
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman 
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to 
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any 
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least 
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating 
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal 
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less 
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his 
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed 
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were 
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby 
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my 
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it, 
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more 
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all 
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves 
constitution of 
cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but 
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, 
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible, 
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided, 
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden 
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of 
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to 
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same 
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds 
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the 
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end 
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the 
inhale its fickleness --and when retained 
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended 
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have 
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect 
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to 
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use 
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted 
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval 
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the 
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon 
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps 
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way 
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon 
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he 
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his 
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I 
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and 
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit, 
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further 
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for 
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression 
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his 
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the 
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain; 
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of 
 
 
 
 
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye 
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my 
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially 
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time 
.. <p 217 > 
.. <p 219 > 
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly 
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb, 
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't 
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from 
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish 
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my 
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin 
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to 
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one 
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that. 
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do 
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a 
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far 
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear 
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also 
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander 
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of 
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and 
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his 
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye, 
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and 
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and 
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was 
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face 
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It 
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that 
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because 
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base 
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then 
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put 
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the 
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not 
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in 
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so; 
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he 
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull, 
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern 
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and 
sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and 
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge 
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with 
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands 
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. 
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a 
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all 
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders 
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, 
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the 
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen 
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon 
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of 
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye, 
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect 
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long 
 
 
 
     There are certain queer times and occasions 
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a 
     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, 
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH > 
.. <p 225 > 
.. <p 226 > 
.. <p 227 > 
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the 
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with 
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts 
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still 
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that 
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at 
account, said 
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own. 
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up 
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from 
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our 
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on 
devil fetch the hindmost. 
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things 
family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of 
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at 
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present 
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly 
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I 
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb, 
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to 
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that 
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a 
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg 
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to 
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug 
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then, 
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom 
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as 
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart. 
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time 
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so 
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up 
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for 
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the 
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was 
seems but a part of the general 
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade 
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did 
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and 
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the 
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the 
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was 
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties; 
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the 
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more 
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in 
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will. 
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that 
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent 
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the 
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint, 
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to 
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel. 
 
 
 
     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of 
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back 
.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS > 
.. <p 234 > 
.. <p 235 > 
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in 
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those 
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand 
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous 
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for 
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing 
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty 
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of 
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides 
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that 
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his 
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking 
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called 
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever 
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could 
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And 
endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances, 
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that, 
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to 
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own 
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish 
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast 
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward 
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the 
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still 
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days 
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of 
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking 
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of 
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the 
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and 
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the 
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they 
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to 
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only 
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire 
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the 
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate 
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that 
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over 
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard 
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a 
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an 
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the 
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of 
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still 
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us 
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and 
tides were a conscience; and the great 
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on 
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to 
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every 
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye? 
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal 
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane 
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, 
 
 
 
     ( As told at the Golden Inn.) 
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming 
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the 
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your 
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY > 
.. <p 241 > 
.. <p 243 > 
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, 
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further 
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like 
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days' 
and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet 
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now 
been nurtured by all those agrarian 
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long 
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by 
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, 
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social 
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest 
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly 
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries, 
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet 
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being 
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm 
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea; 
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and 
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet, 
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus 
in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest. 
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much 
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth, 
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story 
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, 
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of 
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death. 
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly 
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may 
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked 
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them 
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you, 
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it 
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners 
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of 
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to 
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but 
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this 
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private 
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish 
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it 
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of 
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to 
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well 
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men. 
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself 
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, 
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman! 
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, 
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they 
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news 
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams; 
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more 
 
 
 
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of 
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but 
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the 
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima," 
-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more 
.. <p 249 > 
.. <p 251 > 
Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story." 
Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric 
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little 
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil 
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, 
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in 
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their 
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging 
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our 
behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain, 
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of 
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the 
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I 
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row; 
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your 
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at 
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their 
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's) 
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious 
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of 
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through 
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large 
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word; 
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of 
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who 
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I 
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; 
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except 
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your 
metropolitan freebooters 
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee 
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your 
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to 
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was 
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as 
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not 
ringleader. 
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran 
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the 
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A 
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, 
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy 
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on 
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand 
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen, 
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw; 
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more 
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. 
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly 
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide 
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with 
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, 
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter 
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not 
 
 
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the 
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by 
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two 
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes, 
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball, 
.. <p 257 > 
.. <p 259 > 
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air, 
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within 
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said 
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm 
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew. 
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him 
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain, 
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons, 
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over 
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two 
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old 
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to 
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable 
blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat 
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this 
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the 
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the 
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded 
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket, 
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of 
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and 
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced 
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, 
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol. 
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood 
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the 
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!" 
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some 
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat 
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe, 
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the 
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop 
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and 
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles 
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him; 
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over 
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to 
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain, 
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for 
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It 
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it 
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he 
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool 
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up 
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and 
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that 
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he 
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted. 
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no 
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a 
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a 
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea. 
was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor, 
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap 
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in 
 
 
 
     
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the 
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in 
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as 
, he 
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE > 
.. <p 265 > 
.. <p 266 > 
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That 
Count de Lacepede, 
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on 
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from 
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his 
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the 
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of 
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's 
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea 
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said 
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, 
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold 
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of 
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not 
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints 
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for 
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing 
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and 
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is 
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without 
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling 
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over 
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of 
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross 
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial 
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and 
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must 
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable 
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale 
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading 
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for 
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of 
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm 
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer, 
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far 
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed, 
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads 
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and 
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially 
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen 
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently 
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the 
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In 
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the 
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in 
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their 
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow; 
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But 
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of 
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous 
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark 
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's 
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that 
 
 
     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the 
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes, 
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; 
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT > 
.. <p 272 > 
.. <p 273 > 
.. <p 275 > 
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a 
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return! 
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and 
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear 
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative 
alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a 
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of 
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance, 
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a 
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will 
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all 
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then 
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish 
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the 
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in 
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon 
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the 
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and 
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the 
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for 
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when 
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three 
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered 
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our 
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can 
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are 
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean 
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean 
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and 
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring; 
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently 
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting 
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's 
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely, 
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded 
plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for 
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to 
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused 
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still 
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; 
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but 
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would 
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous 
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight! 
that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and 
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows 
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, 
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the 
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting 
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the 
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea 
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the 
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure 
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an 
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the 
 
 
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it 
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of 
.. <p 280 > 
.. <p 281 > 
.. <p 283 > 
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee! 
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool-- 
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling 
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and 
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat, 
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in 
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible 
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his 
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and 
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day 
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying 
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line, 
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling 
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every 
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus 
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and 
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward, 
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so 
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and 
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could 
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, 
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was 
harpoon, by your side. 
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only 
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of 
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of 
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you. 
in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and 
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine 
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats, 
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of 
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen 
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to 
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated 
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs 
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot 
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the 
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you 
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play -- 
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego. 
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of 
stroke which the eager Indian gave. 
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with 
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different 
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of 
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb 
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to 
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in 
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he 
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there 
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords 
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded 
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the 
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my 
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the 
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and 
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like 
 
 
 
     Stubb's whale had been killed some 
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon 
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH > 
.. <p 288 > 
.. <p 289 > 
.. <p 291 > 
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted 
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to 
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those 
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of 
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on 
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty 
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a 
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies 
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied 
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an 
dangling, sharp-edged 
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working 
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the 
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, 
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would 
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other 
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare 
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second 
in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly 
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of 
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest 
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass 
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with 
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a 
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much 
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm 
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always 
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is 
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was 
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management 
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head, 
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor, 
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted. 
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed 
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until 
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface, 
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs 
smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were 
sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in 
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly 
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines, 
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous, 
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and 
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark 
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the 
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish 
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the 
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may 
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast 
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now, 
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, 
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications, 
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at 
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of 
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands 
 
 
 
 
 
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there, 
     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great 
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I 
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the 
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is 
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa 
.. <p 290n. > 
.. <p 297 > 
.. <p 299 > 
But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give 
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's 
Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that 
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other 
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for 
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the 
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, 
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of 
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle, 
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid 
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely 
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls. 
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But 
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you 
clap t'other a'top of your heart, when I'm giving my orders, cook.  What! 
cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they 
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their 
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in 
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the 
ejaculation he went to his hammock. 
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a 
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time. 
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes 
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced 
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling 
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge 
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized 
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three 
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are 
me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you 
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the 
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy 
of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of 
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully 
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which, 
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now 
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least, 
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be 
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. 
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it 
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by 
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing. 
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who 
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his 
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor 
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first 
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an 
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the 
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the 
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said 
 
 
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go 
     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how 
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare 
.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET > 
.. <p 305 > 
.. <p 307 > 
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The 
Pole.  Like the great dome of St.  Peter's, and like the great whale, retain, 
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of 
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the 
altogether of an irregular, random aspect.  I should say that those New 
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, 
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these 
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of 
be but the skin?  True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may 
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I 
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite 
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large, 
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller 
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however 
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are 
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground 
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the 
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where, 
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by 
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those 
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St. 
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for 
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still 
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the 
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed 
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. 
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above 
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This 
not the mightiest whale is free.  Nor is this the end.  Desecrated as the body 
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass 
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is 
of whose mere 
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that 
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches, 
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The 
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what 
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat 
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great 
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that 
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At 
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild 
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms, 
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no 
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with 
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found 
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of 
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which 
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is 
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It 
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff 
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and 
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the 
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral 
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the 
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. 
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators; 
 
 
 
     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and 
     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of 
     thou must either-- But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far 
.. <p 313 > 
.. <p 315 > 
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that 
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! 
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain 
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without 
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks 
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's 
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are 
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more 
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale? 
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a 
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading 
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, 
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity 
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never 
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby 
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere 
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy 
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of 
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous 
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally 
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after 
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his 
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the 
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to 
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of! 
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to 
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of 
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with 
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling 
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he 
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power 
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last 
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors, 
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a 
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to 
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every 
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, 
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, 
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two 
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. 
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which 
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate 
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for 
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring 
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible 
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was 
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had 
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air, 
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and 
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the 
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass 
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the 
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! 
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with 
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To 
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations 
 
 
     Am I the same man that helped kill this whale?  Doesn't the devil live for 
     grey-headed whale.  Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads 
     the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy.  They are the only whales 
.. < chapter lxxiv 7  THE SPERM WHALE'S HEAD--CONTRASTED VIEW > 
.. <p 326 > 
.. <p 327 > 
.. <p 329 > 
But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done.  The carcases of 
Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either 
Fedallah's age.  Nor all the coopers in creation couldn't show hoops enough to 
Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so 
a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.  Meantime, Fedallah was 
all the known varieties of the whale.  As the external difference between them 
an ox whip when we get home; -- what else?  Now, do you mean what you say, 
and large experience.  In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a 
backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): 
behind it.  If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with 
both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled 
can't remember where.  Three Spaniards?  Adventures of those three 
dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more 
devil?  Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him 
disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the 
duck you, though -- yes, and drown you --what then?  I should like to see him 
ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead?  Did you ever see any parson a 
for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and 
former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with 
he'll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his 
her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe.  So, when on one 
his face in the admiral's cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the 
involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading 
is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment 
just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good 
legs.  And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?  Do with it?  Sell it for 
make oughts enough.  but see here, stubb, i thought you a little boasted 
more character in the Sperm Whale's head.  As you behold it, you 
now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string 'em along in a row 
of his neck, and say --Look here, Beelzebub, you don't do 
organ imparts.  The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this 
other, by merely stepping across the deck: --where, I should like to know, 
pepper and salt color of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age 
planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one 
puzzling question might be started concerning 
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.  A curious and most 
same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm 
side you hoist in Locke's head, you go over that way; but now, on the other 
side, hoist in Kant's and you come back again; but in very poor plight. 
sneaks so much.  Damn the devil, Flask; do you suppose I'm afraid of the 
suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is 
than if he were stealing upon you from behind.  In a word, you would have two 
that, Mr. Flask?  How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?  Do you see 
the ship.  The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard 
the whale's eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for 
these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.  In 
to the magnitude of the head.  Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the 
towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys; 
two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay 
wearing mourning for the devil?  And if the devil has a latch-key to get into 
whale's eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly 
whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the 
will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?  In the 
wrinkles there to the 
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through 
 
 
     and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper chop, which arch over his 
     the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one. 
.. < chapter lxxvi 24  THE BATTERING-RAM > 
.. <p 333n. > 
.. <p 334 > 
.. <p 336 > 
Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward 
Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie 
This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather 
Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years. 
a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of 
amount of oil.  Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I 
and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage 
arm, impotently rebounds from it.  It is as though the forehead of the Sperm 
at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I 
atmospheric distension and contraction.  If this be so, fancy the 
be lodged there.  Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily 
blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale's mouth, 
boneless toughness,  inestimable by any man who has not handled it.  The 
brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance. 
but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded 
contact, any merely hard substance, 
difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a 
entirely under your chin.  Moreover you observe that the whale has no external 
estimated as piled wood is --by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as 
facing death?  This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm 
forehead seem now faded away.  I think his broad brow to be full of a 
greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.  In 
impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there 
in it.  Bethink yourself also of another thing.  When two large, loaded 
inside of the whale's mouth; another, hogs' bristles; a third old gentleman 
it on deck.  This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I 
know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise 
look around you afresh.  Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically 
nose; and that what nose he has --his spout hole --is on the top of his head; 
of all elements contributes.  Now, mark.  Unerringly impelling this dead, 
of the softest Turkey --the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of 
particular, the demand has long been on the decline.  It was in Queen Anne's 
prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. 
provincials then?  What befel the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's 
receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely 
severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human 
sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; 
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this 
substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.  In some 
swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately 
the creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings.  Though the 
the most appalling, 
the mouth.  It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting 
the sailors do?  They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming 
the unobstructed elasticity of its envelop; considering the unique interior 
there?  It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the 
thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the 
thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the 
time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the 
tongue on each side of his mouth.  As every one knows, these same hogs' 
under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were 
wad.  Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise 
well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower 
without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. 
would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow.  For unless you own the whale, 
you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one 
 
 
 
     and all caught their breath, as half swinging --now over the sailors' heads, 
     poor Tash by the head.  He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a 
     will ye!  Stand clear of the tackle!  cried a voice like the bursting of a 
--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch 
.. <p 342 > 
.. <p 343 > 
But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent 
Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished?  Why, diving after the 
Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.  He has 
Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the 
Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!  But hardly had 
affect the countenance of the whale.  For as in landscape gardening, a spire, 
an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.  both!  both! --it is both! 
and now over the water --Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly 
beadle on his throne.  In some particulars, perhaps, the most imposing 
blemish at all.  Nay, it is an added grandeur.  A nose to the whale would have 
brisk. 
by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank 
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of 
curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it.  Pushing heavy cannon 
dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that 
diver could be seen.  Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed 
dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the 
falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and 
for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.  And 
have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there? 
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the 
in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending 
is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the 
its hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks.  The 
landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one's 
leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and 
man, cried Stubb, are you ramming home a cartridge there? --Avast!  How 
modifications of expression discernible therein.  Nor have Gall and his 
mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to 
next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the 
now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side, 
of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far 
of the Indian.  Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to 
over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.  How many, think ye, 
perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant 
poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents, 
queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to seem incredible to some 
ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the 
same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no 
seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely 
slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale's well.  But, peradventure, it may 
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal 
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper; 
the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in 
the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping 
the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled.  A pestilent conceit, which 
their decrees.  It signifies God: done this day by my hand.  But in most 
there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer. 
thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the 
up mountain defiles, the elephant's brow is majestic.  Human or animal, the 
view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers 
whale, I will do my endeavor.  I try all things; I achieve what I can. 
will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?  Avast, 
with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should 
without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose.  Dash the nose from 
 
 
 
     It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight.  The whale was now 
     do, do! --What's that Yarman about now?  At this moment Derick was in the act 
     raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was 
-- What a hump --Oh, do pile on the beef --lays like a log!  Oh!  my lads, do 
.. <p 350 > 
.. <p 352 > 
Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he 
Yarman --Pull--won't ye?  Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye?  Do ye love 
abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as 
as almost to defy pursuit for the time.  At this juncture, the Pequod's keel 
barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three 
behind him to upbubble.  Who's got some paregoric?  said Stubb, he has the 
boat's bottom --and by the Lord, the mast there's budding.  This won't do, 
brandy?  A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man.  Come, why don't some of 
buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged 
by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted 
closely as so many spans of horses in harness.  They left a 
concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is 
d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty 
did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.  As he mounted the 
down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens, 
fire or not?  Oh!  see the suds he makes!  cried Flask, dancing up and down 
for ever escape.  But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, 
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to 
god-dam, --cried the Indian.  Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of 
gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; 
great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon 
had had, Derick's boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by 
hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every 
hard to say.  Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that 
he don't sling thee with it, cried Starbuck.  Give way, or the German will 
him not five minutes ago! --then in his old intense whisper -- give way, 
his hammock at night in profound darkness --his last drop of Bremen oil being 
huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as 
jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright.  Now to this 
laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in 
lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into 
more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's immediate wake, 
name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.  His necessities supplied, Derick departed; 
of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up 
perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same 
piratical hawks.  But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make 
proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of, 
seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters 
so disposed, momentarily neared him.  In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude 
spring --slap-jacks and quohogs for supper, you know, my lads --baked clams and 
stomach-ache, I'm afraid.  Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! 
technically called a clean one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the 
that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's boats the advantage, 
that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook 
the blade of his midship oarsman.  While this clumsy lubber was striving to 
the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such 
their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their 
through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably 
torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which 
up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration 
venerable leviathans to be at all social.  Nevertheless, he stuck to their 
while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made. 
wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so 
with the jaundice, or some other infirmity.  Whether this whale belonged to 
ye burst a blood-vessel?  Who's that been dropping an anchor overboard --we 
 
 
     Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of 
     full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. 
.. <p 358 > 
.. <p 359 > 
.. <p 361 > 
Dericks, my friend. 
Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was 
Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honor of 
Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately 
Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species.  Where one 
accounted for it.  Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy, 
after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises, 
and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must 
and though 
are instances where, 
avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a 
before described.  But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the 
beneath them by the cords.  By very heedful management, when the ship drew 
bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more 
brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.  Be it said, however, that the Sperm 
by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially 
capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the 
command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon 
deep.  Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St.  George, a Coffin, 
discovered.  What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous 
distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself 
enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.  The more I 
fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timber-heads; and so low had the 
for the ulceration alluded to.  But still more curious was the fact of a 
gabled roof of a house.  The ship groaned and gasped.  Many of the ivory 
harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch 
health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm 
how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the 
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the 
might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon 
needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account 
not killed with any sordid intent.  Those were the knightly days of our 
often mistaken for it.  And consequently Derick and all his host were now in 
on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been 
pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you 
pen-knife, and cut the big chains.  Knife?  Aye, aye, cried Queequeg, and 
rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this 
rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it 
sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, 
set sail.  Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda --indeed, by some 
species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of 
spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is 
stand for each other.  Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of 
still in bold, hopeful chase.  Oh!  many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the 
suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah 
than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free.  But there 
that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape, 
the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right 
the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was 
the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it 
upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.  It so chanced that almost 
vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable 
versions of the Bible use that word itself.  Besides, it would much subtract 
whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached, 
when it shall have ascended again.  It was not long after the sinking of the 
while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk, 
ye?  cried Stubb to the body, don't be in such a devil of a hurry to sink! 
 
     That for six thousand years --and no one 
), 
.. <p 366 > 
.. <p 367 > 
.. <p 369 > 
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes 
Now, if after he fetches a few 
again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute. 
along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers 
any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch 
are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below.  Remark, 
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter 
boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared, 
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale's 
bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the 
centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain 
crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use 
deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially 
diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft's bald keel.  He 
fleetness.  Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or 
forty feet ahead.  Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice 
harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. 
he has no gills.  How is this?  Between his ribs and on each side of his spine 
here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the 
his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.  If I say, that in 
however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any 
in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in 
in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff 
is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in 
it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all, 
knows how many millions of ages before --the great whales should have been 
later inevitably extract it.  It became imperative to lance the flying whale, 
may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water 
more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth.  No, he breathes through 
must run wine to-day!  Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, 
obstinacy of that leviathan in having his spoutings out, as the fishermen 
old Monongahela!  Then, Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, 
one they are alike.  Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his 
or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the 
phrase it.  This is what I mean.  If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, 
point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in 
precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, 
qualified to excel in pitchpoling.  Look at him; he stands upright in the 
rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to 
sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel 
seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises 
slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely 
spigot out of him!  cries Stubb. 'Tis July's immortal Fourth; all fountains 
spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere 
subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed 
superfluous scientific words.  Assume it, and it follows that if all the 
that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling.  Small sword, or broad 
the air.  He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his 
the living stuff!  Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart 
the necessity 
took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom, 
true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable 
up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his 
vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended 
whale.  Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.  That drove the 
which they swim, hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never 
without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added 
would then live without breathing.  Anomalous as it may seem, this is 
 
 
     Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in a different 
     breach --somewhere else to be described --this peaking of the whale's flukes is 
     strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.  Third: I cannot demonstrate it, 
.. <p 375 > 
.. <p 377 > 
Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily.  The most direful 
Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not 
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed 
a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a 
action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft 
all beings.  For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity 
alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and 
and never will.  But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how 
balls.  The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my 
between the outside layers.  This triune structure, as much as anything else, 
bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the 
cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease 
elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of 
embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the 
especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible. 
fairy's arm can transcend it.  Five great motions are peculiar to it.  First, 
floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level 
generally the most serious result.  These submerged side blows are so often 
highest heaven.  So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his 
his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in 
human form, mark what robustness is there.  And whatever they may reveal of 
in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail.  In 
inability to express it.  At times there are gestures in it, which, though 
is only inflicted by the recoil.  If it be made in the unobstructed air, 
kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth.  But still you see 
leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming.  His side-fins only 
mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw 
moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes.  As it seemed to me at the 
nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones.  On more accounts than 
often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest 
or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority.  To the whale, his tail is the 
over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm 
pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these 
power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, 
received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play.  Some one 
sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and 
seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.  When Angelo paints even God the Father in 
silence.  The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the 
sole means of propulsion.  Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and 
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow 
teachings.  Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that 
that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented 
the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.  Fourth: Stealing 
the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which 
the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the 
their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his 
they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable.  In an 
thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating 
to the light buoyancy of the whaleboat, and the elasticity of its materials, 
unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary 
undulates through a Titanism of power.  On the contrary, those motions derive 
whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, 
when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least 
whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it 
which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry. 
will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels.  Standing at the 
would be gone.  As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked 
 
     power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as 
.. <p 381 > 
.. <p 383 > 
.. <p 385 > 
As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly 
The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales 
Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of 
afterwards killed at your leisure.  Hence it is, that at times like these the 
all herding creatures.  Though banding together in tens of thousands, the 
all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's brow was left gaunt 
and after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase, 
and like King Porus' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they 
any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly 
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon.  It is chiefly 
boats.  But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of 
broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the 
cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on 
chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some 
close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing 
cross each other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is 
detached white vapors, rising and falling something like the spouts of the 
dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the 
drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's 
edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while 
every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can.  And 
from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning.  So 
have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to 
his own fan-like extremity.  All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, 
if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be 
irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short 
is gallied.  The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto 
leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny 
lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.  Stripped to our 
locked in and crushed.  But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; 
men.  Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion, 
mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake.  Here the storms in the 
now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now 
of the fishery.  For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into 
of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship 
our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time 
part of the business.  Out of the way, Commodore!  cried one, to a great 
rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout; 
retreated, but collectively remained in one place.  As is customary in those 
round you than you can possibly chase at one time.  But sperm whales are not 
seemed going mad with consternation.  In all directions expanding in vast 
shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, 
squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they 
stopped the leaks for the time.  It had been next to impossible to dart these 
swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship 
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways 
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a 
the outskirts of the shoal.  In about three minutes' time, Queequeg's harpoon 
the sea.  Had these leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over 
they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert 
threatened to swamp us.  Hard down with your tail, there!  cried a second 
to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with 
towing drugg.  They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball. 
vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the 
was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely 
we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by 
whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly 
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an 
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor 
 
 
 
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves.  To 
     The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes 
.. < chapter lxxxviii 28  SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS > 
.. <p 387n. > 
.. <p 390 > 
.. <p 392 > 
Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the 
New-England rocks with the noble brawn of the old English emigrants in the 
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying 
They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a 
Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence 
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial 
all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning 
almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous 
ancient one.  Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one 
ardor of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends 
as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near. 
awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon 
be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand 
broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated 
called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school 
character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself, 
contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one 
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what 
disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about 
dozen yards round the waist.  Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the 
each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.  Now, as the harem of whales is 
esteem, the whales salute more hominum. 
feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in 
few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters, --furrowed heads, 
floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also 
gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also 
he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly 
himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales.  Almost 
in the Fishery, --the more whales the less fish.  Of all the drugged whales 
lord.  Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there 
males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.  In cavalier attendance 
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools.  For while those 
most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation 
must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a 
notorious Lothario out 
of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most 
of it.  His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally 
only one was captured.  The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only 
plebeianised --so to speak --in the New World. 
secrets.  The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously 
sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family. 
such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, 
technically known as the schoolmaster.  It is therefore not in strict 
the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and 
the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch that 
their unctuousness is small.  As for the sons and the daughters they beget, 
though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob: -- a 
to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod. 
universally, a lone whale --as a solitary Leviathan is called --proves an 
upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude, 
warmth.  By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the 
waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody 
which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time; 
why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with 
with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving 
 
 
     De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat 
     Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three 
     lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.  It 
(the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business. 
.. < chapter xc 2  HEADS OR TAILS > 
.. <p 397 > 
.. <p 399 > 
.. <p 401 > 
And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too? 
Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine 
Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with 
Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?  What all men's minds and opinions but 
Lord Warden's.  Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation 
Stubb, that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled 
alongside of it.  Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding 
and so floated an unappropriated corpse.  It may well be conceived, what an 
begging him to take the case of those unfortunate 
captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honorary Grand 
caught belongs to the King and Queen, because of its superior excellence. 
discourseth: Ye tail is ye Queen's, that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied 
duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a 
elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may 
fobbing of them.  Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and 
forth.  But Plowdon gives us the reason for it.  Says Plowdon, the whale so 
furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside.  As we 
glided nearer, the stranger showed French colors from his peak; and by the 
heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone.  At length one of 
in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same 
in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one 
is originally invested with that right.  The law itself has already been set 
it for his royal master and mistress?  What was Poland to the Czar?  What 
leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. 
loose-fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing 
money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he 
of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices.  But this 
of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be 
peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we 
policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.  Holding the office directly from 
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and 
proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to 
quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.  Coming still nearer 
same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for 
seem 
sinecure.  But not so.  Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times 
so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon; both royal 
some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an 
stranger.  But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard 
territories become by assignment his.  By some writers this office is called a 
the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port 
the other day.  I thought they would keel up before long.  Presently, the 
their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good 150 pounds from the 
them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak.  Please, 
there seems a reason in all things, even in law. 
to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; 
unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the 
vapors in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose 
very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.  I will bet something now, said 
vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft.  A peculiar and not 
whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy, 
with a tail?  An allegorical meaning may lurk here.  There are two royal fish 
with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale 
with ye whalebone.  Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone 
 
 
     a 
     yet the two substances are quite distinct.  For amber, though at times found 
.. < chapter xcii 31  AMBERGRIS > 
.. <p 406 > 
.. <p 408 > 
Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as laborers do in 
Frenchman's two whales.  Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has 
Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St.  Peter's in 
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in 
Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam.  His boat's crew were all 
Yet so it is.  By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others 
after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty 
against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, 
almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at 
ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought 
and hailing the pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to 
benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking 
brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and 
bye. 
certain Nantucket-born 
chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a 
commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin.  You would 
days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the 
disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly 
fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation 
forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the 
from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of 
hair-powders, and pomatum.  The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to 
home to Holland for that purpose.  It was a collection of furnaces, 
in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, 
increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's 
it is of a hue between yellow and ash color.  And this, good friends, is 
length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old 
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the 
more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we 
oil is nearly scentless.  The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently 
ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, 
paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk.  Also forget not the 
perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed 
precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the 
reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning.  Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he 
rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.  I should like to conclude the 
service to us.  Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful 
shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms 
somebody else.  He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any 
subject.  for at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the 
that --in fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps 
that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, 
that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale 
the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken 
the heart of such decay; is this nothing?  Bethink thee of that saying of St. 
themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale! 
through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the 
to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course.  The consequence is, 
untidy business.  But there is another thing to rebut.  They hint that all 
very unctuous and savory withal.  You might easily dent it with your thumb; 
were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner. 
whale.  Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body, 
whales always smell bad.  Now how did this odious stigma originate?  I opine, 
whales, for it's so calm they won't drift.  By this time Stubb was over the 
with him, said the interpreter.  Thank him heartily; but tell him it's 
would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale 
 
 
 
 
 
     and have a long talk with its inmates.  This place has previously been 
     but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fire-side, 
     it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of 
     that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into 
.. < chapter xciv 26  A SQUEEZE OF THE HAND > 
.. <p 414 > 
.. <p 416 > 
I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found it strangely 
Leviathan.  Nippers.  Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's 
Squeeze!  squeeze!  squeeze!  all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till 
There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the 
about the size of the iron part of a hoe.  Edgewise moved along the oily deck, 
an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget; 
and lurches about.  Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself, 
and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.  For the 
as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might 
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; 
befell myself. 
began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue 
called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes 
co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules.  Such 
confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it.  It tasted something 
course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately 
discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the 
felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralize.  As I sat 
free from all ill-will, or petulence, or malice, of any sort whatsoever. 
from the whale.  When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents, 
gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle 
grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma, --literally and 
have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison 
hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to 
in allaying the heat of anger: while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely 
incidentally used by the sperm fishermen.  It designates the dark, glutinous 
insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes 
is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of 
loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad.  So man's 
mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted 
much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble 
negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was.  The 
oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a 
prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.  I hold it to be the 
recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room, 
rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with 
season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually 
should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest 
soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same 
sperm of kindness.  Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever!  For 
spots of the deepest crimson and purple.  It is plums of rubies, in pictures 
substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and 
that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost 
their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say, --Oh!  my dear fellow beings, why 
this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night.  On one 
time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in 
to the mincer.  They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.  Plum-pudding 
vocabulary.  But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so.  A whaleman's nipper 
was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.  A sweet and unctuous 
whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.  It is an ineffably 
white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish, 
wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.  Gurry, so 
 
 
 
 
     Had you descended from the Pequod's 
     for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in 
     though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the 
     yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of 
.. < chapter xcviii 2  STOWING DOWN AND CLEARING UP > 
.. <p 422 > 
.. <p 423 > 
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the 
I.  Lo!  in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the 
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed 
Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the 
Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the 
and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. 
and vials, though --to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes 
and which is two thirds of this earth.  So, therefore, that mortal man who 
beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his 
bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me.  Convulsively my hands grasped 
brought by the lee!  look not too long in the face of the fire, O man!  Never 
conscious of something fatally wrong.  The jaw-bone tiller smote my side, 
dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot.  But the 
deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their 
dream with thy hand on the helm!  Turn not thy back to the compass; accept 
executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like 
fine hammered steel of woe.  All is vanity.  ALL.  This wilful world hath 
gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness.  Uppermost was the 
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces. 
hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true --not true, 
headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery 
higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar. 
in some enchanted way, inverted.  My God!  what is the matter with me?  thought 
its redness makes all things look ghastly.  To-morrow, in the natural sun, 
lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.  In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is 
like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the 
moon.  The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth, 
mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still 
night the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.  See with what 
of the dead.  Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee, 
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of 
own supper of game. 
principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the 
putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further 
related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how 
ship's stern, with my back to her prow and the compass.  In an instant I faced 
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this 
solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore.  It is sweet as early grass 
steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.  Nothing seemed before me but a jet 
that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her 
the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when 
the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are 
the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames, 
the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and 
their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of 
thing occurred to me.  Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly 
to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of 
try-works to the Pequod's forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, 
unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being 
upon them, for now, ex officio, every sailor is a cooper.  At length, when 
way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and 
wise, and therefore jolly; --not that man is fitted to sit down on 
words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, 
 
 
 
 
     And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow, 
     and at two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and 
     found something there in the vicinity of his thigh --I guess it's Sagittarius, 
     that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!  comes Cancer 
     weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord!  how 
--poor boy!  would he had died, or I; he's half horrible to me.  He too has 
.. <p 430 > 
.. <p 432 > 
Bull and Jimimi!  here's Gemini himself, or the Twins.  Well; the sun he 
Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanack below calls ditto.  I'll get 
I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty 
Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, 
Taurus, or the Bull --he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins -- 
aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly 
and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales --happiness 
arithmetic, I'll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer 
been watching all of these interpreters --myself included --and look now, he 
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring.  Book!  you lie there; the 
but still sadly to me.  I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.  There 
caw!  Ain't I a crow?  And where's the scare-crow?  There he stands; two 
comes to read, 
curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the 
earthly symbol.  So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all 
fact is, you books must know your 
for an old button off some king's trowsers.  But, aside again!  here comes 
found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring.  How 
gold.  And what's the horse-shoe sign?  The lion is the horse-shoe sign --the 
he's been studying Murray's Grammar!  Improving his mind, poor fellow!  But 
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea.  He 
here's signs and wonders truly!  That, now, is what old Bowditch in his 
insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer.  I have seen doubloons before 
is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace 
it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty.  Jollily he, 
it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I 
look, they look.  Why, he's getting it by heart --hist!  again.  I look, 
luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the 
mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's back 
now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, 
now.  Signs and wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em.  Hem, hem, hem; 
only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin 
our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope.  If we 
paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin!  that's our first love; we marry 
places.  You'll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to 
roaring and devouring lion.  Ship, old ship!  my old head shakes to think of 
sixty cigars.  I wont smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and 
so; he's beginning.  I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, 
tattooing --looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself.  What says the 
that is so killing wonderful?  By Golconda!  let me read it once.  Halloa! 
the almanack and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's 
the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.  And by Jove, he's 
the sun then be?  The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the 
these signs.  I've studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me 
toes of his pumps as usual.  What does he say, with that look of his?  Ah, 
we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in rear; we are 
what's that he says now -- hist!  I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye 
whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we 
with that unearthly idiot face.  stand away again and hear him.  hark!  I 
wonders, eh?  Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in 
you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.  Well, that's funny. 
your navel, and what's the consequence?  Then again, if it stays here, that 
 
 
 
 
     Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn't see to put on 
     Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot 
     clever things of that sort.  But I may as well say --en passant, as the French 
     or any token of ever having been a wound -- Well, the captain there will tell 
) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket 
, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents 
--very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession -- Do 
.. <p 437 > 
.. <p 439 > 
.. <p 440 > 
Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the 
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all 
Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest 
Englishmen.  Oh!  cried the one-armed captain, Oh, yes!  Well; after he 
I may as well, said the surgeon, coolly.  I was about observing, sir, before 
Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling 
a shocking bad wound, began the whale-surgeon; and, taking my advice, 
against the bulwarks -- Man the boat!  Which way heading?  Good God!  cried 
alongside of the Pequod. 
and didn't know him then; but not to another one.  No more White Whales for 
and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the 
bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, 
clergy --am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink-- Water!  cried the 
cried Bunger,  stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely 
die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future 
do not make plain; but in that year ( 
english captain, he's welcome to the arm he has, since I can't help it, 
he only thinks to terrify by feints.  But sometimes he is like the old 
him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet-- Oh, very 
his mother did; he was born with it.  Oh, you solemn rogue, you --you Bunger! 
hunted, for all that.  What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not 
inches long.  I measured it with the lead line.  In short, it grew black; I 
it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late 
knew what was threatened, and off it came. 
limb enough?  What should I do without this other arm?  And I'm thinking Moby 
man's arm?  And he knows it too.  So that what you take for the White Whale's 
mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to 
my ship, interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; go on, boy. 
not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there 
perceived, respected sir --said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, 
point of real historical interest.  How long, prior to the year of our Lord 0083 
politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.  It was 
precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he's best let alone; don't you think 
remark --that I myself --that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend 
severe!  chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice, 
slightly bowing to Ahab -- is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many 
so, Captain? --glancing at the ivory leg.  He is.  But he will still be 
sounded, we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, 
stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till 
swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest, 
than kept alive by any other man.  My captain, you must have ere this 
the English Captain, to whom the question was put.  What's the matter?  He 
the morning.  Oh, ye stars!  he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe 
their oars.  In vain the English Captain hailed him.  With back to the 
thus far had been impatiently listening to this bye-play between the two 
towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.  In a moment 
was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several 
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world?  Bunger, when you 
years previous (ever since 
you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so 
 
     Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and 
     wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, 
.. <p 446 > 
.. <p 448 > 
.. <p 449 > 
Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook 
From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the 
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the 
The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears 
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings, 
admeasurements.  These admeasurements I now propose to set before you.  But 
all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all 
among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long 
and begat him curly-headed glories.  Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited 
and fro I paced before this skeleton --brushed the vines aside --broke through 
aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, 
behoves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his 
beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with 
capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the 
cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet. 
copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild 
cub? 
deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that 
ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty 
fancied measurement I please.  Because there are skeleton authorities you can 
folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life, 
forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw 
full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.  In both cases, the stranded 
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging --a gigantic idler!  Yet, as the 
have villanies been detected.  Ah, mortal!  then, be heedful; for so, in all 
hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of 
in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have 
inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their yard-sticks -- the great 
invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at 
it deck?  wherefore all these ceaseless toilings?  Speak, weaver! --stay thy 
its many winding, shaded collonades and arbors.  But soon my line was out; 
jaw.  Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a 
least, what untattooed parts might remain --I did not trouble myself with the 
living thing within; naught was there but bones. 
marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine.  To 
no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are 
parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing --at 
plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements.  Thereby 
proprietors call the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in 
raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a 
royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.  For being at 
should regard a chapel as an object of vertu.  He laughed.  But more I 
skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the 
sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and 
speak through it.  For even so it is in all material factories.  The spoken 
sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure.  Oh, busy weaver! 
that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the 
the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that 
the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.  Chief 
then?  But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and 
things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of 
this our god!  That's for us.  Aye, priests --well, how long do ye make him, 
transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now 
valuable statistics.  But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other 
wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such 
whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by 
windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition?  Explain thyself, Ishmael. 
words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are 
 
 
 
 
     Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the 
     but of the whales found in that 
     glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed 
     that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his 
     was 
, on the 
.. < chapter cv 24 DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? WILL HE PERISH? > 
.. <p 455 > 
.. <p 456 > 
A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book, 
But by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost complete 
Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that 
People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the Temple, no 
Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with 
Shem.  I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the 
Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales 
Whale can pass it without immediate death.  But the truth of the Matter is, 
akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking ranks as Cetacean 
and the ancient naturalists generally.  For Pliny tells us of whales that 
as his ancestors in Pliny's time.  And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a 
been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in 
bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, 
capture.  But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an 
conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny, 
directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in 
doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of 
excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's time.  Cuvier pronounced 
find the unmistakable print of his fin.  In an apartment of the great temple 
fully invested body.  So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his 
griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial 
have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it.  Their Historians affirm, 
high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far 
in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man), 
its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be 
left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in 
limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, 
more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year 
not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?  Assuredly, we must 
of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite 
of his sires.  But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of 
one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have 
owen, the english anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a 
pedigree like Leviathan?  Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the 
preceding the superficial formations.  And though none of them precisely 
reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship 
resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time 
sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and 
that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do 
the Base of the Temple.  In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, 
the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member 
the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found 
their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and 
these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species. 
thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in 
unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must 
wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs.  Who can show a 
whale, though of a departed species. 
whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we 
with man.  Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering 
world's circumference, not an inhabitable hand's breadth of land was visible. 
 
 
     Seat thyself sultanically among the 
     during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah's ark.  Was it 
     the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it.  An oarsman sprains his 
.. <p 461 > 
.. <p 462 > 
.. <p 464 > 
Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary 
a grandeur, and a woe.  But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and 
accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he 
all-ramifying heartlessness; --yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old, 
and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this 
big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation.  A 
both useful and capricious.  The one grand stage where he enacted all his 
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of 
carpenter.  And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him 
clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, 
commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances 
contemporary and hereditary.  But most humble though he was, and far from 
deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process.  He was a pure manipulator; his 
ears.  Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping 
for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he 
for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use. 
found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it 
furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter 
had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.  But be all this as it 
half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an 
handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that, 
idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was 
ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals.  Yet was this 
into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller.  A lost 
land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of 
lightly held for capstans.  But while now upon so wide a field thus variously 
may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes 
might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort 
miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he 
moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, 
mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their 
of his readiness in ordinary duties: --repairing stove boats, sprung spars, 
of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so 
one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow 
or four years' voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas.  For not to speak 
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and 
possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid 
primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making 
pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous 
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light. 
sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his 
senate of the dead.  Captain Peleg's bruited reason for this thing appeared by 
stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his 
stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while 
supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had 
that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble 
thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval 
thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain 
to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, 
unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heart-woes, a 
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens, 
was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born 
was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.  Like all 
with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time 
wood.  At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely 
wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion.  Stubb longed for vermillion 
 
 
 
     According to usage they 
     Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a 
     What will the owners say, sir?  Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and 
     slim, sure enough!  Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, 
.. < chapter cix 21  AHAB AND STARBUCK IN THE CABIN > 
.. <p 469 > 
.. <p 470 > 
.. <p 472 > 
.. <p 473 > 
Ahab, said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring 
Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China 
In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a 
Matsmai, and Sikoke.  With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the 
Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end. 
a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round 
affair. 
almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the 
and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship's keel. --On deck!  Captain 
and there's a great cry for life-boats.  And here's the heron's leg!  long and 
back the main-yard; up Burtons, and break out in the main-hold.  It were 
by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect 
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards, 
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse 
collecting old beer barrels, to fill 'em up again.  What a leg this is!  It 
crew: Furl the t'gallant-sails and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; 
demijohn.  Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle 
disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down 
empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted 
fellow, Starbuck, he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the 
footstep at the door, but not turning round to it.  On deck!  Begone! 
hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling 
he said --Ahab beware of Ahab --there's something there!  Then unconsciously 
holders, so called.  Poor Queequeg!  when the ship was about half 
in his head.  Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.  Now, at 
it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward 
itself; A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would 
latitude.  So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now! 
leak!  I'm all aleak myself.  Aye!  leaks in leaks!  not only full of leaky 
looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be 
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of 
must up Burtons and break out.  Up Burtons and break out?  Now that we are 
of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had 
out bone legs by the cord.  Halloa, there, you Smut!  bear a hand there with 
perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck, 
prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my 
quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye!  and in a happier, Captain 
regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the 
returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.  Thou art but too good a 
screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his 
slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important 
standing on this to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it.  Halloa!  I 
that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above.  So 
that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the 
the ship's pumps.  Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while 
this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend, 
to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; 
too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of 
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.  Tierce after tierce, 
waters into the Pacific.  And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of 
with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak.  Much concern 
you rise the harder you toil.  So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer, 
 
 
 
     The blacksmith availing himself of the mild, 
     and so be unsolved to the last.  And this thought it must have been which 
     had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness, 
     story of his wretched fate.  Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's 
.. < chapter cxii 13  THE BLACKSMITH > 
.. <p 478 > 
.. <p 479 > 
.. <p 481 > 
Ahab's brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside 
Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil 
Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's infants were rocked to slumber.  Oh, 
No murmur, no impatience, no petulence did come from him.  Silent, slow, and 
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying 
and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled. 
at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have 
basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always 
beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption.  It rolls the midmost 
both feet.  Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four 
burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything.  And 
called ruin.  He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to 
circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons, 
cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself.  His firm lips met 
darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate 
do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving 
earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that 
finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful 
for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the 
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.  So, in 
had the young widow had a 
he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and 
heavy beating of his heart.  And so it was. --Most miserable! 
hull, Stern all!  the White Whale spouts thick blood! 
in a leaning, dilapidated barn.  The issue was, the loss of the extremities of 
in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming.  Launched at length 
like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled like 
made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a 
midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith 
nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals 
of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency.  But 
of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a 
of the grief of his life's drama.  He was an old man, who, at the age of 
overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted 
planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous 
rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the 
seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.  But few thoughts of Pan stirred 
slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their 
solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled 
stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his 
suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away 
taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then 
that sort.  Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and 
the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed, 
the mariners.  And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had 
the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea 
thousand leagues of blue.  There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about 
upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese 
waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms.  The 
whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of 
wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the 
windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he 
work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic 
 
 
 
     And jolly enough were 
     Penetrating further and further into the 
     bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain. 
.. < chapter cxiv 20  THE GILDER > 
.. <p 485 > 
.. <p 487 > 
.. <p 488 > 
Ahab.  But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret 
But ere he entered his cabin, a light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most 
If.  But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, 
Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colors were flying from her rigging, on 
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastile, such 
all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a 
an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece.  In the forecastle, 
and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily 
barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender 
birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that 
blessed calms would last.  But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven 
boyhood's thoughtless faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then 
brow.  Come along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and 
by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm.  There is 
captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into, 
come aboard, old hearty, come along.  I'll soon take that black from your 
day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that same golden sea, 
drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men 
every side.  Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two 
filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the 
fishery.  Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, 
from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the 
gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's wakes --one all jubilations 
good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous 
grassy glades!  oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye, 
half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.  Nor did such 
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.  The long-drawn virgin 
hilarious jig.  Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy 
hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these 
into the sea. 
kidnapping cannibal ways.  Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I 
leaped up in that same golden light: -- I am Stubb, and Stubb has his 
look deep down and do believe.  And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, 
mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped 
moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.  Would to God these 
negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the 
no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed 
other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish.  Not only 
parchment-like poke or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar 
piteous sound was heard.  Oh, Pip!  thy wretched laugh, thy idle but 
reply.  No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all, said the 
rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the 
scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of 
sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but 
solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked. 
soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on 
the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.  The three men at her 
the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few 
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our 
too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn 
vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the 
weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.  It was a Nantucket ship, the 
wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled 
young bride's eye! --Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy 
 
 
 
     Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket, 
     but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where 
     markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab 
.. <p 494 > 
.. <p 495 > 
.. <p 497 > 
Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; 
Moby Dick?  This instant thou must be eyeing him.  These eyes of mine look 
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba 
Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow, 
Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead.  When darkness came on, sky and 
and destroy thee!  As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with 
at length remain but one little heap of ashes!  Aye, cried Stubb, but 
because of all this, the lower parts of a ship's 
braces!  Up helm! --square in!  In an instant the yards swung round; and as 
but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire. 
carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water.  But as this 
conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all 
cried Starbuck, let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our 
day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a 
die it! 
drive us towards home.  Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but 
fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. 
firmament.  Curse thee, thou quadrant!  dashing it to the deck, no longer 
flip only foamin'; When he stirs in the spicin', -- Such a funny, sporty, 
fun: so the old song says; --( sings.) Oh!  jolly is the gale, And a joker 
have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were 
have to meet it, is just across the deck here.  But never mind; it's all in 
his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a 
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.  Who's there?  Old 
into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that 
is the whale, A' flourishin' his tail, -- Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, 
keep up my spirits.  And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there's no way 
lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long 
like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.  Towards evening of that 
mark his boat there; where is that stove?  In the stern-sheets, man; where 
motionless Parsee's face.  Unobserved he rose and glided away; while, 
none of thine own.  What!  how can you see better of a dark night than 
not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his 
of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel's way in the water; 
other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and 
outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.  The rods! 
place on the sea.  Aye, lighting from the boat to the deck, thus I 
sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that 
ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin' of this flip, -- Such a funny, 
sieve.  Bad work, bad work!  Mr. Starbuck, said Stubb, regarding the wreck, 
slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains 
sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!  Avast Stubb, 
storms, the Typhoon.  It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky, 
that precise instant.  Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked 
the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport. 
the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness 
thee, thou sun!  Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the 
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all 
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds 
to stop my singing 
trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split 
up towards the sun and murmured to himself: Thou sea-mark!  thou high and 
where I am --but canst thou cast the least hint where I shall be?  Or canst 
world it runs, and then comes the spring!  But as for me, all the start I 
ye the doxology for a wind-up.  Madman!  look through my eyes if thou hast 
 
 
 
 
     During the most violent shocks of the 
     Stubb and Flask 
     The anchors are working, sir.  Shall I get them inboard?  Strike nothing, 
     with the Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to 
.. < chapter cxxi 2  MIDNIGHT--THE FORECASTLE BULWARKS > 
.. < chapter cxxiii 10  THE MUSKET > 
.. <p 503 > 
.. <p 505 > 
.. <p 506 > 
East-south-east --which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given 
Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of Ho!  the fair 
Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees?  Here are hydrants, 
Stop that thunder!  Plenty too much thunder up here.  What's the use of 
What a hold they have, too!  I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored 
a nasty night, lad. 
adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers 
ago is it since you said the very contrary?  Didn't you once say that whatever 
and Ahab, --aye, man, and all of us, --were in no more danger then, in my poor 
anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though.  There, 
at your coat collar.  Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the 
big generous hands they are, to be sure.  These are your iron fists, hey? 
breeze --however reluctantly and gloomily, --than he mechanically went below to 
but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying.  And how long 
did run from him in a terror of dismay. 
find it rather hard.  Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be 
hammer that knot down, and we've done.  So; next to touching land, lighting 
harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck? 
humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of 
involuntarily paused before it a moment.  The cabin lamp --taking long swings 
leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope; 
lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any 
long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat.  The tails 
main-top-sail yard!  Ho, gluepots!  Loftiest trucks were made for wildest 
mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of ahab's many of the mariners 
men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and 
monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive 
not know that the colic is a noisy malady.  Oh, take medicine, take 
now listen.  What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's 
of rum.  Um, um, um! 
old man's bolted door, --a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of 
opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas.  Why, 
promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding 
reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer 
ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance 
sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up now.  Sir? --in God's name! --sir?  Well. 
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb --one engaged forward and the other 
supposing we are loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how 
takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack.  Send down my 
the affairs of the deck, --Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the 
the elements.  The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as 
the tiller was indispensable.  In a severe gale like this, while the ship is 
then?  i've part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind?  Besides, 
they stood upright against the forward bulkhead.  Starbuck was an honest, 
through the water with some precision again; and the course --for the present, 
time.  What a hooroosh aloft there!  I would e'en take it for sublime, did I 
two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him.  And what 
upper panels.  The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain 
winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud.  Shall I 
with half an eye can be sensible.  I don't know that, Stubb.  You sometimes 
yourself; you're Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers 
 
 
 
 
 
     Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though 
     I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would feign have wrecked me.  So, 
     Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's 
     While now the fated Pequod had been 
     or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the 
--he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two 
.. <p 511 > 
.. <p 512 > 
.. <p 514 > 
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was 
But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance 
Pip?  come to help; eh, Pip?  Pip?  whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the 
Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.  Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave. 
above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!  look down here.  Ye did beget 
advancing.  Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy? 
and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of 
bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck.  Then, with the 
blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that, 
clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious 
dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives, 
eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they 
fisherman.  It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk 
frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, 
have spoiled it. 'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they 
him off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho!  there's his arm just breaking 
his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log 
intently gazing at Ahab's hand, and feeling it.  Ah, now, had poor Pip but 
loadstone!  The sun is East, and that compass swears it!  One after another 
loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and 
lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the 
maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the 
middle, over one of the compass-cards.  At first, the steel went round and 
of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab 
old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to 
old reelman to stagger strangely.  Hold hard!  Snap!  the overstrained line 
place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped 
progression every hour.  It had been thus with the Pequod.  The wooden reel 
quarter-deck!  The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser, muttered Ahab, 
reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its 
round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its 
said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow.  But 
several times, the mate still holding the rod as before.  Then going through 
sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One hundred pounds 
slunk away.  In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all 
so.  But Ahab is lord over the level load-stone 
speak.  Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet 
steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had 
superior, who'll ne'er confess.  What's that?  There now's a patched 
the after bulwarks.  Rains and spray had damped it; the sun and wind had 
the sail-maker's needles.  Quick!  Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse 
there.  In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a 
thing for immortal souls to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?  Bell-boy, 
thou crazy loon, cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.  Away from the 
touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my 
warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly. 
whale-boat.  pip's missing.  let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, 
white, for I will not let this go. 
whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of 
yet.  Mr. Starbuck--a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of 
 
 
 
 
     Faith?  What's that?  Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like 
     Sing, sir?  Do I sing?  Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the 
     We must save that boy.  He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night, said 
     and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand.  Dost thou never? 
     things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?  Here now's the very 
--that's all, sir.  Um, um; go on.  I was about to say, sir, that-- Art 
.. < chapter cxxviii 9  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE RACHEL > 
.. <p 521 > 
.. <p 522 > 
God's sake --I beg, I conjure --here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, 
Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the blue water, not very far to 
Pequod.  He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing 
Rat-tat!  So man's seconds tick!  Oh!  how immaterial are all materials!  What 
Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes; 
a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship; 
again.  Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous 
an immortality-preserver!  I'll think of that.  But no.  So far gone 
and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of 
boat --the swiftest keeled of all --seemed to have succeeded in fastening --at 
bosom!  Despatch!  and get these traps out of sight.  He goes aft.  That was 
burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.  Bad news; she brings bad 
coffin for Queequeg; but they've set me now to turning it into something 
coffins?  Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a 
day previous, while three of the stranger's boats were engaged with 
dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the 
empty into thee! 
following him.  Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently.  He goes!  Not 
further?  Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but 
have been because there was none in his spade, sir.  But the calking mallet is 
heard.  Hast seen the White Whale?  Aye, yesterday.  Have ye seen a 
hollow tree!  Blind and dumb might well be envied now.  See!  that thing rests 
jack-of-all-trades.  But I do not mean anything, sir.  I do as I do.  The 
least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.  The story told, the 
leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat --a reserved one --had been 
look, sir!  Beware the hatchway!  Thank ye, man.  Thy coffin lies handy to 
middle.  Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his 
monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next 
much the same, Carpenter.  Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the 
necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the 
not thou the leg-maker?  Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?  I 
often happens.  There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet. 
one in the precisely opposite direction --the ship had not only been 
other man aloft on the look-out.  But though when she had thus sailed a 
philosophies from thee!  Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must 
recognized by ahab for a nantucketer he knew.  But no formal salutation was 
seems but uncertain twilight to me.  Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with 
ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her 
spars thickly clustering with men.  At the time the Pequod was making good 
spirits.  Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the 
sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes.  I've heard that the 
that accursed sound?  I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return 
the Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among the 
the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of 
the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen 
this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy. -- Middle aisle 
thou not also the undertaker?  Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a 
to Flask, that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best 
to pick up her three far to windward boats --ere going in quest of the fourth 
way --come, oakum; quick.  Here we go again.  This wooden mallet is the cork, 
who thus far had but icily received his petition.  For eight-and-forty hours 
 
 
     Fedallah; and then settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said, 
     freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's 
-- What d'ye see? --sharp!  sharp!  But when three or four days had slided by, 
.. < chapter cxxxi 10  THE PEQUOD MEETS THE DELIGHT > 
.. <p 529 > 
.. <p 531 > 
He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan but 
Still again both seemed yoked together, and an unseen 
Whale?  Look!  replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and 
advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while from the point of that 
an eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace it, 
and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast down 
be, that Starbuck, almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose 
before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or exactly pacing the planks 
between two 
called shears, which, in some whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the 
concerned the slightest verbal interchange.  At times, for longest hours, 
day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath the planks; 
disabled boats.  Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white 
doubloon!  and with his own hands he rigged a nest of basketed bowlines; and 
eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight.  Your 
from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if, unprovided with 
gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles, --ahead, astern, this side, and 
half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.  Hast seen the White 
hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far in 
he stood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung 
height into the sea. 
him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision --one of 
his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his 
in strict charge to some one man who has the special watch of it.  Because in 
in this matter were not unusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to 
incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these 
latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a 
main-mast head, he received the two ends of the downward-reeved rope; and 
maze of untrackably swift circlings.  Then it darted a thousand feet straight 
mortal substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some 
necessary.  Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain; 
night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below. 
not yet forged that will ever do that, answered the other, sadly glancing 
open air; that is, his two only meals, -- breakfast and dinner: supper he 
other --unless at long intervals some passing unmomentous matter made it 
other; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning 
ribs, and some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but 
scream, the black hawk darted away with his prize. 
self, as daily, hourly, and every instant, commandingly revealed to his 
spot, and sustained there by 
stood near it.  And thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab 
such a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft 
that, --within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.  When 
the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though somewhat lower than 
the rope; under these circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given 
these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally 
those too, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat; 
to step; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless 
undeviating limits, --the main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him 
unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or 
up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying again round his 
what he may, all rib and keel was solid Ahab.  At the first faintest 
whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so 
wing was before the old man's eyes; the long hooked bill at his head: with a 
without a single hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his 
you now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled, 
 
 
     That night, in the mid-watch, 
     horns; his lovely, leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth 
     right away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet.  Be dumb, man!  Stand 
.. <p 536 > 
.. <p 538 > 
.. <p 540 > 
Fate reserved the doubloon for me.  I only; none of ye could have raised the 
Jove, not that great majesty Supreme!  did surpass the glorified White Whale 
Soon that peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the 
There again! --there again!  he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic 
a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and the air smells now, as if it 
ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main-top-sail and 
all the boat-sails set --all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, 
almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I cried out, said 
and behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley 
as he so divinely swam.  On each soft side --coincident with the parted swell, 
at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro 
bewitching fleetness, rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not 
boats.  Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.  Helm 
by the braces!  Hard down the helm! --brace up!  Shiver her! --shiver her!  So; 
down, and left in the half-cut swaths --Starbuck!  But blanched to a 
errand-boy in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible 
field.  Sleep?  Aye, and rust amid greenness; as last year's scythes flung 
found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes.  Yet calm, enticing calm, 
he raised a gull-like cry in the air, There she blows! --there she blows!  A 
his face to the sky.  Nothing, nothing, sir!  was the sound hailing down in 
hump like a snow-hill!  It is Moby Dick!  Fired by the cry which seemed 
it before?  cried Ahab, hailing the perched men all around him.  I saw him 
lit up Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.  Like 
living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this 
lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on 
master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me; that against all natural 
mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested the gliding whale.  Not the 
new-mown hay.  Sleeping?  Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the 
noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but only 
of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his 
on the hill!  But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he 
pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.  A gentle joyousness --a 
rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be 
rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing.  Ahab had 
seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly 
set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish foam.  He saw the vast, 
shook, and cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.  What is it, what 
shortened.  The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently 
simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the 
slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the mowers are sleeping among the 
smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so 
some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but 
surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and 
that lifts this arm?  But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an 
the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were hoisting him 
the whale shed off enticings.  No wonder there had been some among the hunters 
there!  Luff, luff a point!  So; steady, man, steady!  There go flukes!  No, 
thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and while peering 
tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.  Man the mast-heads!  Call 
tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.  He's 
vindicated at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and 
well that!  Boats, boats!  Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; 
when the old man --as his wont at intervals --stepped forth from the scuttle in 
white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful 
with their clothes in their hands.  What d'ye see?  cried Ahab, flattening 
wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift 
 
 
 
     At day-break, the three 
     but this swift motion of the deck creeps up one's legs and tingles at the 
(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down poise 
.. <p 542n. > 
.. <p 546 > 
.. <p 547 > 
Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed -- The thistle 
Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in its every pace, 
Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye two are all 
This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale.  It receives its designation 
across, so over the old man's face there now stole some such added gloom as 
again, but at some further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass, 
among the Nantucket commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale 
and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second 
another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus continued 
as in an already over-clouded sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail 
baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or the down train will 
blows! --right ahead!  was now the mast-head cry.  Aye, aye!  cried Stubb. 
collateral subtile matters touching the chase of whales.  The ship tore on; 
darkness is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the 
direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of sight, 
experience, and invincible confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses 
gods nor men his neighbors!  Cold, cold --I shiver! --How now?  Aloft there! 
heart.  This 
hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still greater breadth --thus 
indefinitely prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for 
is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times 
it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead; and then, 
keep her full before the wind! --Aloft!  come down! --Mr. Stubb, send a fresh 
leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a 
like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the Pequod bore down in the 
mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a 
matter --'tis but resting for the rush.  Here be it said, that this 
more certainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be 
night, and through night into day, is a thing by no means unprecedented in 
now?  D'ye see him?  and if the reply was, No, sir!  straightway he 
of the allotted hour expired, his voice was heard. -- Whose is the doubloon 
of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously 
pilot's coast is to him.  So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the 
poltroon.  Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck.  Aye, sir, said 
proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all desired 
quarter from his port?  Inferable from these statements, are many 
reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude.  But to render this 
see how the night wore on. 
slower now 'tis night.  Down royals and 
soon swayed up to their cranes --the two parts of the wrecked boat having been 
stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it with stun-sails, 
that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a 
the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha!  ha!  What 
thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear thou wert a 
then, when night obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the 
thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude.  The ship itself, 
to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at every turn he passed his own 
top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck.  We must not run over him before 
under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both the 
visited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after 
we go the gait that leaves no dust behind!  There she blows --she blows! --she 
whaleman's allies; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound 
when last descried, they will, 
with what is called double-banked oars.  It was thus now.  But the added power 
wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon the quarter-deck, and lay there 
 
 
 
 
     D'ye see him?  cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.  In his 
     Sir?  My body, man, not thee.  Give me something for a cane -- there, that 
     craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as on the 
     thing --a nobler thing that that.  Would now the wind but had a body; but 
--gone?  What means that little word? --What death-knell rings in it, that old 
.. <p 553 > 
.. <p 555 > 
.. <p 556 > 
Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet.  Believe ye, men, in the things called 
But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear that, know that 
THE CHASE--THIRD DAY The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and 
Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts 
a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it.  And still this 
all eyes were fastened upon him; as instead of standing by himself he still 
and now comes blowing hither as innocent as 
be caught at, and safely landed them on her decks.  Some sprained shoulders, 
boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor did it so 
brave?  As fearless fire, cried Stubb.  And as mechanical, muttered Ahab. 
concern.  Aye!  and all splintered to pieces, Stubb! --d'ye see it. -- But 
cried Starbuck; never, never wilt thou capture him, old man --In Jesus' name 
even with a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone 
exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.  But when he was helped to the deck, 
ferrule has not stood, sir, said the carpenter, now coming up; I put good 
for the earliest sun. 
hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, 
he'll rise once more, --but only to spout his last!  D'ye feel brave men, 
heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due eastward 
in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening their 
inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were 
it's like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the 
keep him nailed --quick! --all hands to the rigging of the boats --collect the 
leaner who he will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.  The 
morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn 
naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.  Even Ahab is a braver 
never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; that's tingling enough for 
no more of this, that's worse than devil's madness.  Two days chased; twice 
oars --harpooneers!  the irons, the irons! -- hoist the royals higher --a pull 
of the daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar. 
omens?  Then laugh aloud, and cry encore!  For ere they drown, drowning things 
once more the solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds 
pile on the sail again, ship keepers!  down the rest of the spare boats and 
rig them --Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's crews.  Let me first help 
sharp splinter.  Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the 
shivered lance will do.  Muster the men.  Surely I have not seen him yet.  By 
soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs.  I feel strained, half 
stove to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy 
such a wicked, miserable world.  I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink 
that? --There's a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts 
the last man?  Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea?  Shall we 
there.  And yet, 'tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind!  who ever 
thought my brain was very calm --frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like 
throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that.  And yet, I've sometimes 
to assist him.  His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short 
under orders.  Look thou, underling!  that thou obeyest mine. --Stand round 
was nowhere to be found.  Aye, sir, said Stubb -- caught among the tangles of 
will twice rise to the surface; then rise again, to sink for evermore.  So 
with Moby Dick --two days he's floated --to-morrow will be the third.  Aye, men, 
wouldst thou have? --Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps 
wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; 
your line --I thought I saw him dragging under.  My line!  my line?  Gone? 
 
 
     Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work.  Steady!  helmsman, steady.  Nay, nay!  Up 
     helm!  take the helm; let me pass, --and so saying, two of the oarsmen 
     to the last letter of thy word.  Where is the second hearse?  Away, mates, to 
.. <p 561 > 
.. <p 563 > 
Ahab, cried Starbuck, not too late is it, even now, the third day, to 
But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line, and 
Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three mast-heads; 
again steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship, --which thus 
and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea.  Oh! 
and this, this then is the hearse that thou didst promise.  But I hold thee 
are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me. --Where's the 
before me that I may yet grope my way.  Is't night?  The whale!  The ship! 
bethinking it --it may be --a larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down 
boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain 
chase, and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or 
craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with the White Whale's 
crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost every dip.  Heed 
dart, and were therefore unprepared for its effects -- these were flung out; 
far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present 
flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had just 
flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance --as the whale sometimes 
from him, as his own forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, 
gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer and 
helm again!  He turns to meet us!  Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards 
her headway had been stopped.  He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity, 
him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval.  Glancing upwards, he saw 
hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in repairing them.  One after 
hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back into 
if sucked into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled 
instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer remained suspended in his hand; and the 
into the sea. 
just as soon as he.  The whale, the whale!  Up helm, up helm!  Oh, all ye 
last encounter had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now 
level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying hard to stop 
must, in a woman's fainting fit.  Up helm, I say --ye fools, the jaw!  the 
now marking that the vane or 
of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and 
one side of the upper part of their bows, but leaving Ahab's almost without a 
pull on! --But who can tell --he muttered -- whether these sharks swim to feast 
return to me; if not, Ahab is enough to die --Down, men!  the first thing 
round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which, during 
save my ship?  But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the 
sea, that ere it be for ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time 
shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up.  Lashed round and 
sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!  They will last long enough! 
sliding by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as 
spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates' boats, and dashing in 
standing upon the bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster 
sweet powers of air, now hug me close!  Let not Starbuck die, if die he 
that but offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon.  Ye 
the deep.  Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for an instant 
the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed 
the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him, 
the whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he 
through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat lay nearly 
to the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in him, 
unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat; 
upon his mark; I see: the ship!  the ship!  Dash on, my men!  Will ye not 
whale.  Give way!  cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward 
whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was 
will --and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off 
MOBY.100;1               30 
MOBY.102;1               19 
MOBY.104;1               17 
MOBY.106;1               11 
MOBY.108;1               18 
MOBY.10;1                18 
MOBY.111;1                6 
MOBY.113;1               14 
MOBY.115;1               11 
MOBY.117;1                6 
MOBY.119;1               28 
MOBY.120;1                3 
MOBY.122;1                1 
MOBY.124;1               14 
MOBY.126;1               15 
MOBY.128;1               16 
MOBY.12;1                10 
MOBY.131;1                5 
MOBY.133;1               41 
MOBY.13;1                20 
MOBY.15;1                14 
MOBY.17;1                26 
MOBY.19;1                13 
MOBY.21;1                13 
MOBY.23;1                 5 
MOBY.25;1                 4 
MOBY.27;1                19 
MOBY.29;1                14 
MOBY.31;1                 9 
MOBY.33;1                12 
MOBY.35;1                30 
MOBY.37;1                 6 
MOBY.39;1                 3 
MOBY.41;1                44 
MOBY.43;1                 4 
MOBY.45;1                40 
MOBY.47;1                11 
MOBY.49;1                10 
MOBY.51;1                17 
MOBY.53;1                19 
MOBY.55;1                22 
MOBY.57;1                12 
MOBY.59;1                11 
MOBY.61;1                23 
MOBY.63;1                 6 
MOBY.65;1                11 
MOBY.67;1                 9 
MOBY.69;1                 6 
MOBY.71;1                27 
MOBY.74;1                19 
MOBY.76;1                11 
MOBY.78;1                19 
MOBY.80;1                11 
MOBY.82;1                13 
MOBY.84;1                10 
MOBY.86;1                21 
MOBY.88;1                15 
MOBY.90;1                12 
MOBY.92;1                11 
MOBY.94;1                15 
MOBY.96;1                21 
MOBY.98;1                12 
MOBY.LIS;1                0 
